##Victoria Sawchuk - ADA Application Essays

####**1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**

Roadblocks are a part of every career path, but the roadblocks I encounter on a frequent basis tend to stem from the same issue: the inability to quickly implement a simple and innovative programming solution.  I currently work in data analytics, and spend a large amount of my time sifting through data, cleaning it up, and getting it into a useable format.  In my field, I have seen the power of applications to automate time-intensive processes and synthesize meaningful data views.  Further, there is immense opportunity that belongs to people with the skills needed to program - to create - business solutions, and I want to own a share of that opportunity.

I have limited classroom experience with programming having only taken one VBA class in college.  I have self-taught enough ASP, HTML, and JavaScript to help edit an internal-facing web application, but I don't know enough yet to create something similar on my own.  I've used Codecademy tutorials, w3schools, and stackoverflow regularly as resources for my questions.  Additionally, I am a founding member of an online donation platform for college organizations, but have mostly focused on the business side of things such as contacting potential clients and obtaining business licenses, while experimenting with Google Tag Manager.  All of these exposures have helped me get a baseline introduction, but I am missing fundamental knowledge of computer science and languages that would allow me to learn quickly and reasonably implement any development skills in a work environment.

**2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?**

If I am accepted, I see myself working full-time as a lead developer on software that can reshape customers' relationships with a service provider and the resources they provide.  Ideally, that would include changing the way patients access their health system and manage their own healthcare, but there are plenty of ways to positively impact peoples' lives through technology!

In addition, I see myself running a thriving company in my spare time with the help of my business partners.  I will no longer have to solely rely on my partners to develop the product, but will be in the weeds with them expanding a platform that will benefit charitable organizations by driving down costs and increasing focus on fundraising efficiency.

**3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?**

I am excited for the opportunity to become a female developer in a male-dominated space and to work with others who are also currently in the minority in the developer community.  Not only would I work with my peers to create an inclusive, welcoming, and supportive environment while in the program, but I would also bring Ada's vision with me to the workforce where I would seek the inclusion of underrepresented communities including people of all gender and sexual identities and people of color.  Raising others up raises all of us up, and I try to live by that in my personal and professional life.

If I am accepted, I hope that I would bring as much diversity in experience and thought as my peers surely would; I would hope to share my experience from the healthcare and insurance industries,  the skills I have gained as a small business owner, and the relevant knowledge I may have from my collegiate studies of business administration and neuroscience.  I believe that sharing as much information as possible leads to a greater understanding of both intellectual concepts and social issues, and that working together is the easiest way to create that wealth of knowledge.

**4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**

I accepted my first job offer out of college as a contractor for an east-coast health system, and loved the work!  However, after over a year of promising to bring me on full-time, there was still no progress in terms of becoming an official employee.  This severely limited the scope of the projects I could work on and the resources I could access since I didn't have a company-provided computer or access to secure networks.  While I learned a great deal in that role, I knew that I could have learned more and created better solutions for the health system as an employee.  With that knowledge, I started applying to other health systems in the area and landed an offer with a competitor.  I almost accepted, but my boss told me they would match the salary I'd been offered and bring me on as a full-time employee within two months.  So, I stayed.  I stayed because I liked my team and I had enjoyed the work, but mostly I stayed because I really believed they would hire me.  But, the next eleven months were not what I had negotiated, and they placed me with one of their subsidiary companies that contracted me back to my department for only three days a week.

If I experienced a similar situation - where a company had misled me and failed to see the potential in my work - I would take the new opportunity.  I would not spend so much time in a position that did not provide the challenges I needed to grow in my career.  I am thankful for that period of time because it taught me that my personal development is valuable, and that I need to be constantly searching for opportunities to grow myself.
